When you hear the word warehouse, you may picture something like this.
A building that is very large with tall shelves holding pallets of items.
These items arrive and leave by the truckload and require special
equipment to move around due to their size and weight.
Warehouses serve an important function of holding items until
they are shipped to a final destination.
Data warehouses serve a similar function.
They hold data that is needed to perform comprehensive analytics
for organizations and they operate on a much larger scale than
other databases within the organization.
When dealing with data warehouses, some common pain points that arise are size,
scale, and storage.
The sheer volume of data needed for data warehouse activities exceeds the
maximum operating capacity of some database engines.
A data warehouse needs to have a storage system capable of
scaling up to handle very large amounts of data.
Performance,
operating on extremely large datasets can magnify problems that are
sometimes hidden when working with smaller amounts of data.
A data warehouse needs to be able to query and analyze the data
fast enough to provide value to the organization.
For example,
if you're trying to make decisions each day based on
insights from your data warehouse,
but it takes a week for the reports to complete,
you'll always be acting on stale information.
Cost, this goes back to providing value.
If it costs more to run your data warehouse than you can gain
in value from using the data warehouse,
then why bother creating one in the first place?
Ideally, cost should also be predictable and correspond to your actual usage.
Security,
many organizations are subject to certain audit and compliance requirements
that don't go away just because you're using a data warehouse.
A security breach on a data warehouse could have a much larger
impact than other database compromises due to the volume and variety
of data contained in the data warehouse.
Finally, management,
how many resources are you going to need to dedicate
to managing your data warehouse?
Are you going to have any resources left over to actually use the system,
or is most of your budget going toward just keeping the lights on?
Amazon Redshift is a cloud data warehouse designed to address the pain
points of data warehousing by leveraging the scale,
flexibility, performance, and cost savings available in the cloud.
Let's go through some of the features of Redshift to see how it addresses size,
speed, and storage, performance, cost, security,
and management.
You'll often hear data warehouses measured in terms of petabytes.
A petabyte is equal to 1024 TB.
It would take over 3.4 years of full HD video recording to fill 1 PB.
With managed storage,
Redshift can automatically support workloads of up to 8 PB of compressed data.
The Redshift Spectrum feature allows you to run queries against Amazon
S3 without having to load or transform any data,
as well as writing data back to S3 in open formats such as Parquet,
JSON, and CSV.
This gives you the flexibility to store highly structured,
frequently accessed data in a Redshift data warehouse
while keeping other structured, semi‑structured,
and unstructured data in S3.
Federated query is another feature designed to reduce data movement.
This allows you to query live data from your Amazon RDS and Aurora
databases without moving that data into Redshift. Redshift concurrency
scaling adds transient capacity in seconds.
In other words, as the number of concurrent users increases,
Redshift can automatically scale up your resources to provide
consistently fast queries to all of your users.
Redshift allows you to scale compute and storage separately.
This saves you money by not having to provision unneeded compute
capacity as your data grows. Some Redshift instances further help you
optimize cost and performance by automatically moving less frequently
accessed data to S3 and holding more frequently accessed data on local
SSDs. AWS has developed a high‑bandwidth connection between these
instances and S3,
so you're able to save on storage costs without a
significant impact on performance.
Overall,
Redshift costs up to 75% less than other cloud data warehouses
while delivering up to three times the performance.
Redshift has several security features built in and
integrates with other AWS services to give you a wide
variety of security options. For example,
you can have end‑to‑end encryption of your data to
secure it both in transit and at rest.
Your instances can run inside a VPC for isolation from other resources
or be able to connect to your existing IT infrastructure using a VPN.
You can enable CloudTrail to track all Redshift API calls, and Redshift
also logs all SQL operations, including connection attempts,
queries, and changes to your data warehouse.
You can also set row and column‑level security controls to control data access.
Redshift simplifies many management tasks to lessen the resources required to
set up and maintain your data warehouse. Infrastructure is automatically
provisioned, and backup and replication is automatic,
including the option to replicate data to a separate region.
Fault tolerance is also built in. Redshift will automatically
re‑replicate data from failed drives and replace nodes is necessary to keep your data warehouse running.